Add documentation of the errors manager (#1395)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/1/plugins/plugin-context/customize-errors/index.md

---
code: true
type: page
title: customize errors
---

# Customize errors

When creating your own Kuzzle plugin, you can use the `errorsManager` to have customizable errors.

> In order to define it, you have to write them inside the [manifest.json](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/guides/manual-setup/prerequisites/#manifest-json) in a `errors` field.

Reviewer: What is "it" in your sentence? 

Proposal:

```suggestion
Custom errors have to be written in the [manifest.json](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/guides/manual-setup/prerequisites/#manifest-json), in an `errors` field.
```

> Your manifest would be something like :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:
```

```
{

>     "name": "kuzzle-plugin-xxx",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "name": "<plugin name>",
```

    "kuzzleVersion": ">=1.0.0 <2.0.0",

>     "privileged": false,

Reviewer: deprecated

```suggestion
```

    "errors": {
        "some_error": {
            "code": 1,
            "message": "Some error occurred: %s",
            "class": "BadRequestError"
	},
        "some_other_error": {
            "code": 2,
            "message": "Some other error occurred: %s",
            "class": "ForbiddenError"
	}
    }
}
```

> It is exposed as `errorsManager` in the [PluginContext](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/plugin-context/accessors/intro/).

Reviewer: Then why is it documented apart from the context accessors?

Author: See my comment below

Author: (I've wrote the wrong link)

Reviewer: Ok I was confused. I now think that this sentence should go: we're saying, in the pluginContext/errorsManager documentation, that the errorsManager object is exposed by the pluginContext object.

This is redundant.

The `errorsManager` provides two functions:

> - To throw : `context.errorsManager.throw(error, placeholders);`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To throw : `context.accessors.errorsManager.throw(error, placeholders);`.
```

Author: I didnt exposed in the `accessors` object as you can see (maybe i should?):
https://github.com/kuzzleio/kuzzle/pull/1391/files#diff-f69f5b9a669d46c8acb5425fa1afde14R74
I putted directly into the `context`

> - To get the built error: `context.errorsManager.get(error, placeholders);`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To get the built error: `context.accessors.errorsManager.get(error, ...placeholders);`
```

Author: See comment above

> - To get the built error: `context.errorsManager.getError(error, placeholders);`

Reviewer 2: The `getError` method has to be renamed in `get` since `errorsManager.getError` is a little bit redundant.

> Also, you can give more precision by giving a [`subdomain`](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/plugin-context/errors/kuzzleerror/) to your plugin in you [kuzzlerc file](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/guides/manual-setup/config/). It would be like :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the [subdomain](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/plugin-context/errors/kuzzleerror/) code for plugins is set to `0`. A subdomain can be defined for a plugin in its configuration section in the [kuzzlerc file](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/guides/manual-setup/config/). 

Example, for a plugin name `foobar-plugin`:
```

Also, we should explain that the error domain code for plugins is fixed to `04` and that it cannot be changed.

> Also, you can give more precision by giving a [`subdomain`](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/plugin-context/errors/kuzzleerror/) to your plugin in you [kuzzlerc file](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/guides/manual-setup/config/). It would be like :

Reviewer 2: IMHO the subdomain should also be precised in the manifest

Author: We discussed here
https://kaliop.slack.com/archives/G4LN18NLQ/p1566564559390200
And we conclude that it should be in the kuzzlerc

```
{
  "plugins": {
    "foobar-plugin": {
      "option_1": "option_value",
      "option_2": "option_value",

>       "codes": {

Reviewer: I didn't pay attention in the implementation PR, but I find this very ugly and redundant.

... shouldn't this be `"subdomain": 42`?

Also, now that I see this documentation... there is something that I don't like: this configuration is normally interpreted by plugins themselves, but here we have introduced a reserved word for our own usage. We need to isolate it from the rest.

One possible way to do that would be, perhaps, to prefix it with an underscore, as we do with other particular properties in our API?

Author: I prefere prefixing it like: `_pluginCodes` or just `_codes`.
I find it more explicit than a `subdomain` property here . I think it's more clear and easy to understand for developers.

Reviewer: Ok for an explicit name... How about `_pluginErrorCode`?

          "foobar-plugin" : 42
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Example

> If you customize errors like above and you write `context.errorsManager.throw('some_error', 'Something get wrong');`, Kuzzle will throw a [BadRequestError](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/api/essentials/errors/#badrequesterror) with the following properties :

Reviewer: In english, there is no space before punctuation signs.

```suggestion
Taking the configuration example above, if an error is thrown with:

`context.errorsManager.throw('some_error', 'Something get wrong');`

Then when triggered on an API request, Kuzzle will respond to the querying user with a [BadRequestError](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/api/essentials/errors/#badrequesterror) error, with the following properties:
```

- message : `Some error occured: Something get wrong`
- errorName : `plugins.foobar-plugin.some_error`

> - code : 0442123

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- code : 0x04420001
```

---
code: true
type: page
title: customize errors
---

# Customize errors

When creating a Kuzzle plugin, custom [API errors](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/api/essentials/errors/) can be defined and thrown, using the `errorsManager`.

> Custom errors have to be written in the [manifest.json](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/guides/manual-setup/prerequisites/#manifest-json), in an `errors` field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Custom errors have to be specified in the [manifest.json](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/guides/manual-setup/prerequisites/#manifest-json), in an `errors` field.
```

The `errorsManager` provides two functions:
- To throw : `context.errorsManager.throw(error, placeholders);`.
- To get the built error: `context.errorsManager.get(error, placeholders);`

Note that the `domain` is `plugins`, meaning that its code is fixed to `04` and cannot be changed.
By default, the [subdomain](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/plugin-context/errors/kuzzleerror/) code for plugins is set to `0`. A subdomain can be defined for a plugin in its configuration section in the [kuzzlerc file](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/plugins/guides/manual-setup/config/). 

Example, for a plugin name `foobar-plugin`:

```
{
  "plugins": {
    "foobar-plugin": {
      "option_1": "option_value",
      "option_2": "option_value",
      "_pluginCode": 42
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Example

Taking the configuration example above, if an error is thrown with:

`context.errorsManager.throw('some_error', 'Something get wrong');`

Then when triggered on an API request, Kuzzle will respond to the querying user with a [BadRequestError](https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/1/api/essentials/errors/#badrequesterror) error, with the following properties:

> - message : `Some error occured: Something get wrong`

Reviewer 3: Is this the real message? The proper wording would be
`An error occurred. Something went wrong` which is actually redundant... `An error occurred` means that something went wrong...

Author: This message doesnt exist, this is an example
